Welcome to Introducing
Extensible Enterprise
Single Sign-On.
My name is Matt Chanda.
I am a consulting engineer
and part of the team
that created single sign-on.
In this video I will provide you
an overview of single sign-on,
discuss how to create
extensions,
how to use them in your apps,
how to deploy them,
and finish up
with best practices.
As you know, almost all
enterprise apps and websites
need to authenticate
in order to function.
These apps connect
the systems of record,
either in the cloud,
on premise, or both.
Recently though,
authentication has been getting
more complicated.
We need to consider multiple
authentication methods
including OpenID Connect,
Kerberos, and SAML.
We now have cloud resources that
need to federate authentication
to on-premise systems.
We also have to trust
our devices more,
and sometimes
we don't have passwords.
How do organizations deal
with these challenges?
They use single sign-on to help.
Single sign-on enables
a suite of apps or web sites
to seamlessly authenticate
using the same credential.
This results in
a better user experience.
Some enterprises
do not have passwords,
so they must use single sign-on.
The problem is that not
every app supports their needs.
The existing
authentication solutions
can cause a lot
of user friction.
They have multiple pop-ups,
repeated prompts,
and bouncing between apps.
There just hasn't been a way
to have true single sign-on
that is both secure
and user friendly.
Today I'd like to tell you
about the powerful new
single sign-on capabilities
we added to iOS 13, iPadOS,
and macOS Catalina.
It's enabled by deploying the
new extensible SSO MDM profile
and associated domains.
It works with
user enrollment too.
The extension can choose
to present a UI,
load a web page,
or handle the request silently.
We think these changes
will enable you
to make and use SSO solutions
that are both user-friendly
and secure.
The new extensions will run
on iOS, iPadOS and macOS.
They enable both native apps
and Safari to authenticate
with your identity provider.
The extensions are native code.
They can enable
multi-factor auth,
access the keychain,
use secure enclave
generated keys, and more.
They can leverage
managed-app config
and even use per-app VPN.
You may be wondering about
Sign in with Apple.
Single sign-on is different
than Sign in with Apple.
Sign in with Apple is intended
for your consumer apps
and addresses
different problems.
First, it is meant to solve
an account provisioning problem.
Instead of making
a new account everywhere,
just use your Apple ID instead.
It also solves a privacy problem
where a site doesn’t need
all your personal information.
On the other hand,
single sign-on enables you
to use an existing
enterprise account
for your apps that require them.
Your enterprise apps need
to know exactly who you are
and what you're allowed to do.
Now that we have introduced it,
you may be curious about
what it actually looks like
to do single sign-on.
Let's take a look.
On iOS, let's start
by loading a web page
that requires authentication.
The extension will prompt me
for credentials.
I'll enter my username...
And now my password...
I'll save my password,
then the page will then load.
Notice that the page shows
my username after it loads.
Now let's go to a native app
and try to access
protected resources.
This is where
single sign-on happens.
The user should not be prompted
again for credentials.
This app has two buttons.
It'll try to load images
from the network
that are protected
by the same credential.
I'll start with the burger...
and now the tacos...
And that's single sign-on
in action on iOS.
Now for macOS.
Again, we try to load
a protected web page
and get challenged
for credentials.
So let me open Safari,
load my site...
Now I'll enter my username...
And my password...
I'll save it,
and the page will load.
Great, this is the first login,
but it's not single sign-on
until we use it somewhere else.
So let's try to access
other protected resources
in a native app.
So I'll start with the burger.
Good, and now the tacos.
And you can see
that they loaded as expected.
If I hadn't logged in
to the browser first,
then the same
authentication dialog
would have shown
in the native app.
After logging in,
the credentials would be stored,
and access to the images
would be allowed.
And that's single sign-on
on macOS.
And now back to our slides.
In order to use single sign-on
with your MDM managed devices,
you need these things.
You likely already have apps
and websites
and an identity provider.
So today we will spend our time
on the extension
to glue those together.
So how does it work?
There are two types
of extensions:
redirect and credential.
Let's start
with Redirect extensions.
Redirect extensions are intended
for modern
authentication methods.
Examples include OpenID Connect,
OAuth, and SAML.
These methods are based on
web technologies
and are frequently
used with federation.
Let's look at an example
in Safari.
Redirect extensions
also work with URLSession
in iOS, iPadOS,
and macOS, too.
Instead of loading
the login page,
the OS will redirect the web
request to the extension.
The extension will receive
the URL, headers, and body.
The extension developer
is responsible
for completing
the authentication process
with the identity provider.
When ready, it will return
the URL response to Safari.
Note that this response
should not be large.
It's intended for
a small web form
to post a SAML response or
other tokens to the web server.
Do not use it
for a giant 1-meg web page.
So what can these
single sign-on extensions do?
They can do several things.
Here are a few.
The can choose
to present a native UI
or request multifactors.
They can generate
device-specific keys
on the Secure Enclave
or supplement authentication
requests with trust score data.
The can implement other idP
specific security features too.
They could load a web page and
follow the links for federation.
And on macOS,
they can even use WebAuthN,
if your identity provider
supports it.
Redirect extensions
also work for native apps.
However, native apps
have an additional option.
They can send operations
to the extension.
The app can decide
when it's a good time to login
or refresh tokens silently.
The extension will know if
it needs to authenticate again
or just return saved tokens.
And for the enterprise
app developers,
this means you can use
the extension
as your authentication client.
It avoids the need to include
a copy of an
authentication library
in each app
and then maintaining it.
Let's check out the flow.
It's similar to Safari,
except the native app
can send a command,
such as login,
to start the process.
Again, the extension
is responsible
for completing
the authentication process.
And when ready,
it can return the URL response
with any tokens needed
by the native app.
I also recommend using
managed app config
to inform the native app
of the identity provider URL
to use.
Before I show you
how to build an extension,
let's talk about how to deploy
one of these extensions
in your enterprise.
There are two requirements:
the MDM payload
and associated domains.
Lets start with
the MDM payload.
It is enabled by the new
Extensible SSO payload
for iOS 13, iPadOS,
and macOS Catalina.
Check out the example here.
The identifier is
com.apple.extensiblesso,
and this payload
must be delivered by MDM.
It specifies the extension
bundle identifier
that you want to use,
including the team identifier,
as well as the type
we just talked about.
In this case,
a redirect extension.
It lists the URL prefixes
that will determine
which traffic to route
to the extension.
And finally,
an optional dictionary
of extension-specific values
from the MDM.
In this example we are
sending it the user name.
The second requirement
is to use associated domains.
This starts with
the extension developers.
Associated domains are required
to prove that you
or your identity providers
own the traffic
that is being redirected.
It also prevents someone else
from redirecting your traffic.
On Apple platforms,
extensions are embedded
inside of a host app.
In order to set up
associated domains,
you need to configure the
associated domains capability
in the host app
containing your extension.
You add a new entry
with the authsrv service type,
followed by a colon,
followed by the domain name
used by the app.
If you need multiple domains,
enter each one separately.
Associated domains also
requires that the host app ID
is listed in the Apple app site
association file on the server.
This server must be accessible
by the device
and have a valid SSL cert.
User-approved
or custom root certificates
are not supported for the
Apple app site association file.
In some cases, the associated
domains are unknown
when the app is developed.
A good example of this
is when an identity provider
develops an extension,
but each customer's host
is different.
They can't list
thousands of them
in the entitlements file,
so when this happens,
we can use the new managed
associated domains payload
on macOS.
Note that the value is in the
same format you would have used
in the associated domain's
entitlement value in Xcode.
And you can use
the new AssociatedDomains
MDM application attribute
for iOS and iPadOS.
Again, the value is the same
as it would have been in Xcode.
And the last step for managed
associated domains
is to add the MDM-managed
entitlement
and have an
associated domains array
to let the OS know
to use the MDM values.
We will append the MDM values
to any that are already listed.
For more details on associated
domains and how to use them,
check out the What's New
in Universal Links session.
And that concludes
redirect extensions.
Now let's talk about
credential extensions.
Credential extensions
are intended for
challenge and response
authentication,
and Kerberos
is the best example.
Challenge/response
has a different flow.
In that flow,
the client requests the data,
then gets challenged
for authentication.
Whereas with redirect
extensions,
the client will request
the credentials
before requesting the data.
Credential extensions
can also be used
to handle
authentication challenges
when redirect extensions
are running.
Credential extensions receive
an authentication challenge
returned from the server
instead of the request.
It receives the URL and headers.
They also use a list of hosts in
the MDM payload instead of URL.
The hosts can either be
individual hostnames
or suffixes,
such as .example.com.
Operations can be used
to help determine
when UI should be shown
or request silent operations.
And finally, associated domains
are not required
for credential extensions.
The configuration
for credential extensions
is similar
to redirect extensions,
with two differences.
First, the type is credential.
Second, a list of hosts
are used for selection.
It is checked against
the hostname of the server.
If the MDM value
begins with a period,
then it is used to match
the suffix of the hostname.
Otherwise, the entire
host name is matched.
And again, this profile
must be delivered by MDM.
Credential extensions
will work from both Safari
and native apps.
A request is sent
from the app to the server,
and the server returns
an authentication challenge.
If the host matches the profile,
the operating system will route
the challenge to the extension.
The extension is responsible
for handling the challenge
or rejecting it.
If handled, it returns
the authorization headers
to complete the request.
And the server will return
the response to the caller.
A great example of
a credential extension
is the system-supplied
Kerberos extension
included in iOS 13, iPadOS,
and macOS Catalina.
This extension is based
on Enterprise Connect,
an Active Directory
integration solution
that some of you
may already be using.
It provides an easy way
to integrate your devices
with Active Directory.
On top of providing
Kerberos support,
it helps you manage your
Active Directory password
and helps you keep your local
and Active Directory
passwords in sync.
It supports authentication
using a username and password;
an MDM-provided,
certificate-based identity;
or a smart card.
We think this extension
will help many of you
more easily use Kerberos
and Active Directory
in your organizations.
And that completes credential
single sign-on extensions.
First open Xcode,
create a new project,
then add a target
using the Authentication
Services template.
It will look like this.
Then implement
the RequestHandler protocol.
The system will call
beginAuthorization function
for each request.
Remember that your extension
will be called multiple times
by multiple different apps.
So you need to handle
concurrency
and separating data
for each app.
The request parameter
will contain
all the information needed
about the current
authentication request.
If the extension determines
that it needs to show a UI,
then you call
presentAuthorization
ViewController
on the request to show it.
The request contains the URL,
the headers,
the identifier
of the calling app,
and the extension data
from the MDM payload
we showed earlier.
Remember that
in the flow diagram,
redirect extensions
receive a request
and return a URL response.
Therefore when finished,
a redirect extension must call
complete with httpResponse
and httpBody,
or complete with an error.
This will dismiss the view,
if showing,
and return the response
back to the caller.
If you call the wrong method,
the system
will cancel your request.
Credential extensions
will receive an httpChallenge
and need to return
authorization headers.
Therefore, credential extensions
should use the complete with
AuthorizationHeaders method.
If the authorization challenge
is not supported
by your extension,
then respond with doNotHandle
so that Safari or URLSession
will proceed
with default handling.
Now let's look at using
the extensions in your apps.
Your credential challenges
will be handled
if you use any of the standard
networking frameworks,
including URLSession
and WKWebView.
Requests will also
be redirected too,
so you don't have to update
your app to make it work.
However, the flow may not
be the best fit for your app.
For example, redirects
will be sent to extensions,
but it may overlay
other components
or show other web dialogs first.
You can use operations
to improve the flow of your app
or do more than just login.
For example,
the built-in Kerberos extension
supports local login
and logout operations
on iOS, iPadOS, and macOS.
It also returns custom values
in the response headers
for the apps
to get information
about the user.
To call an operation
in your app,
first you make an instance
of the single sign-on provider
and pass it a URL
for the identity provider.
If you are using
a credential extension,
you can use special realm
or host schemes
to match on those values too.
Then call
canPerformAuthorization
to see if the URL will be
handled by single sign-on.
If it can be handled,
create the request
and set the operation.
Remember that you can
also create
your own custom operations.
Next you create the controller
for the request.
The controller is responsible
for handling the request
and returning the response.
You set the delegate
to handle the responses.
You can set the
presentationContextProvider
to let the OS know
which window in your Mac app
to use for authentication.
This can help maintain
the context of the request
to the user.
Finally, call performRequests
to send it to the extension.
When the extension is finished,
the didCompleteWithAuthorization
delegate method is called.
The supplied authorization
instance includes
a single sign-on credential
with easy methods
for accessing the ID token,
access token, and more.
The system-supplied
Kerberos extension
will provide you
with some information
about the logged-in user
in the headers.
Now for some development tips.
Your extension will be loaded
when the first request
is received.
It will likely be unloaded
when your request is completed.
Therefore, I recommend
that you lazy load settings
and then you should save
any values to disk
before sending the response.
Now for debugging.
Extension debugging
can be a challenge
because it is not loaded until
the first request is received.
Therefore, the best way
to debug your extension
is to use "Attach to Process
by Process ID or Name..."
under the Debug menu.
You just enter the name
of your extension
and Xcode will attach to it
when it is first loaded.
When using operations,
for consistency,
I recommend using
the login operation
for interactive scenarios
that will show UI.
You should use a refresh
operation for silent operations,
and if there is an error,
the native app can follow up
with the login operation.
Next, let's talk about
the host app.
It's a good idea
to make the host app
more than an empty container.
You can consider
a menu extra, widget,
or even a command line utility.
It can handle onboarding,
device pairing,
or other infrequently-used
functions,
such as password changes.
You can use NFC
in your host app too.
You should consider integrating
credential extensions
and redirect extensions
together also.
There are now new capabilities
you can take advantage of
in your extensions.
You can keep
sensitive information,
such as refresh tokens,
in the extension
as a way to control it.
You could locally sign a JWT,
then send it to the server
for authentication.
Or you can create
a certificate signing request
on the device and send it
to your CA to pair the device.
You can also share
authentication cookies
from WKWebview
with URLSession
to share sessions
with native requests.
In summary, single sign-on
enables authentications
for your apps and websites.
It's available on iOS 13,
iPadOS, and macOS.
There are two types available.
We're really excited to see
what you can do with them.
For more information,
please visit
developer.apple.com